INTO THE REALM OF LIGHT


Alexander Macdougall


_______________________________________

Once upon a time there were two opposing kingdoms. One was led by a strict king who ruled by the stringent laws of his forebearers. The other was ruled by a witch who maintained order by impressing lessons on criminals through strange quests and absurd dilemmas. Both lived in uneasy peace, until one day, the king’s daughter and the witch’s son became imprisoned in the dungeons of one another’s castles. 

The king and his guard approached the young wizard, who was so securely bound that not a word could creep from his mouth nor a shape be formed by his hands, for these are the utensils of a sorcerer. “Young devil you are caught! At last, your torments may end. A relief this may be, though a problem offends. Your mother keeps my daughter in similar restrain. I will ride out at once and seek a parlay, but know that for your crimes you still must pay!” The young wizard murmured something that none could distinguish through his restraints. “The crime is demonic corruption, for never would befall my daughter such seduction. To be mad at her king, her father, her grace, who rejects her affections that you have emplaced. No princess can love a wizard, you devilish ingrate, only through magic could you have possibly caused her state!”

The wizard was thus still, his cheeks had become rosier, and sweat was forming upon his brow. “We leave now at once, though do not be dismayed, an immortal such as yourself may survive while so pained. For three hundred years will you remain: chained in this dungeon, until justice has been laid.” At that, the king and his guard absconded the dark crypt and rode toward the border of his kingdom to meet with the witch. While they rode out, the witch was similarly dealing justice upon the king’s daughter.

“Fair maiden so young, what have ye done? You’ve ensnared my child, my wizard, my son. To impart on you a lesson not lost, I demand a service that is equal in cost. Your lips are confused by the wave of my hand, and so only through pure action may reason land. Go now at once, on a swift steed of mine, and convince your father that your love is no lie.” When the princess spoke in response her words were complete gibberish and, seeing no alternatives, she left the witch’s keep and mounted a pony, riding toward her father’s kingdom with the good haste of love.

Through dark and gnarled woods, the princess travelled until she arrived at the border. She saw a small host of mounted knights and at their head was her father. Throughout her journey she had thought deeply of what to do, but the probable loss of her love overshadowed her wits and left her practically paralyzed. Her father soon recognized the princess and called out to her, “My daughter, my sweet, at once you must come! Freedom is here and with ease may we run!” Still mounted, she approached the king and paused at the threshold of the two kingdoms. Unsure of how to explain her love with actions, she pointed at her heart and then beyond the king and his comrades. She repeated these motions, to their utter confusion, until the king chimed in, “My lovely you must speak, for none have a clue, what your strange motions tell us to do.” Growing red hot at her father’s misunderstanding, the princess started to blabber a series of incomprehensibilities, which alarmed the king and his men. Many placed their hands by their scabbards, and some even drew their swords, thinking her possessed or a devilish incarnate cast by the witch. The princess realized that the witch’s curse and her father’s narrow mind would never conclude in reason, so she sped past the king and his knights. 

Hastened by ethereal ferries, the princess reached her father’s keep seconds before her pursuers. She ran down to the dungeon and found the cage of her love and spoke in words only he could unscramble. “My greatest desire, my truth and my heart! I have come back at once to be no longer apart.” By the grace of her truthful words his bindings slipped so that he could embrace his love and speak at last. “My fairest adored, my light and my soul! You should not be here for in your father may stroll!” His words were thus acknowledged, as the king clambered down the stone steps with his knights in tow. “My daughter is lost, gone to the dark! For as my father once said, once the witch has ye the line to the devil is crossed!” He turned to his nearest knight, “Take up your sword and take off her head, this evil can not linger but must be purged instead!” The knight drew his sword and lined up the blade with her neck, striking sideways with great force. As the shimmering edge neared her fair skin, a divine light permeated the entire dungeon. This was not the breaking of the witch’s spell, as her father was still unconvinced of her love, but it was the magics of an even greater power: a divine perfection that radiates upon all who dedicate themselves to the devotions of love. The sword and the bars between the two were dissolved and the two lovers were intertwined into a golden sphere of indescribably perfect beauty. The dumbstruck king and his knights watched in tears as the lover’s orb lingered for a short time before it launched upward, effortlessly passing through the stone roof without leaving a single mark. The king attempted to give chase, but only caught a final glimpse of his celestial daughter as the united lovers took their place upon the night sky, forever imparting their radiance on the two tenuous kingdoms.

Many years of peace followed, as the king and the witch, guided by the radiant wisdom and love bestowed by the cosmos, united their kingdoms as one under the starlight of their cosmically betrothed children. The people then strove for perfect love amongst one another for as long as the stars were bright. 